# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

Sunday, 1 September 2024

## Meeting Minutes

1. Designate a secretary to take notes (yorik)  
   1. Yorik will  
2. We should encourage addon developers to consider updates to their projects in anticipation of 1.0 release. (sliptonic)  
   1. A blog post has been done, and most addons seem to be in good shape.  
3. The rock is rolling: Latest on Sisyphus revision to improve existing website. (reqrefusion)  
   1. 5 PRs are pending against FreeCAD-Homepage \- They will be reviewed during tomorrow's M3.  
   2. 3 PRs against FreeCAD-FPA \- Yorik will look at them tomorrow  
4. THANKS: Re minutes. Appreciated by us in the east asian zone (worser)  
5. DISCUSS: Agenda items are being anonymously altered/appended ☹️. Basic courtesy demands comments/amendments/addenda should show attribution, which could be “minutes”. (worser)  
   1. Chennes will setup a github repo, where we will handle the agenda from now on. This should offer us better history  
6. DISCUSS: FreeCAD is popular open source *software*. *IMHO* FreeCAD should be mature enough to not only tolerate, but encourage, free and open discussion of all aspects of the *software*. *IMHO* recent blocks/deletions reflect badly on the FreeCAD brand. (worser)  
   1. All developers present in the meeting agree that we need better and more efficient moderation on the forum, and pointless, nontechnical or not respectful flame wars to be stopped as soon as possible. We basically don't think the recent blocks/deletions are a problem, that's something we need to build a healthier and friendlier place for everybody.  
7. CalculiX version for FEM in 1.0 (NewJoker)  
   1. Need to update the included calculix version. Oursland will check for conda  
8. Version 1.0: What's left to be done (yorik)  
   1. [8 Blockers](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3ABlocker) left, no release candidate blockers. Overall around 50 open regressions since last release  
   2. "Carousel" splash image PR: Ok for 1.0? [\#16071](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/16071)  
   3. State of the wiki?  
      1. Materials WB docs need work. Dave will start an outline  
      2. Sliptonic asked about a dedicated place for Material discussions. There is a  subforum for Material, but it is lightly used.  
   4. State of translations?  
      1. 10 translations above 80%, seems good  
      2. Let's try a new call to action for translators \- Yorik will organize  
      3. FPA should fund translators  
   5. State of release notes?  
      1. Release notes seem good, we need an executive summary or blog post \- Yorik will organize with Alex and Concretedog  
   6. RC 1.0 is planned for tomorrow after M3, 1.0 or RC2 some 2 weeks later  
   7. All devs please look at the tracker in the next 2 weeks and try to help solving last-minute monsters  
   8. Expect a v1.0.1 shortly after 1.0 release.
