## 4 June 2023

- [ ] Yorik: Designate a person who will take notes during the meeting and publish the notes afterwards.  
- [ ] Yorik: Is this date/time good? Does anybody wish to change?  
- [ ] Chennes: installing and using pre-commit  
  
      - [ ] Adrian: If we want this widely used we need to make documentation on it much more prominent, make an .md file explaining it then link it in the PR template (with big letters), the main readme.md, the wiki and the handbook  
- [ ] Chennes: Toponaming status update  
- [ ] Chennes: C++ testing framework  
  
      - [ ] [Feathers book on existing code](https://www.amazon.com/Working-Effectively-Legacy-Michael-Feathers/dp/0131177052)  
- [ ] Brad:  [Developer’s Handbook](https://freecad.github.io/DevelopersHandbook/)  ([source](https://github.com/FreeCAD/DevelopersHandbook)) needs more participation (eyeballs and content).    
  
      - [ ] The source is a github repo so even if you don’t edit the content, you can create issues.  
- [ ] GSoC update  
- [ ] Next release status: 0.21  
  
      - [ ] [Project Board](https://github.com/orgs/FreeCAD/projects/4/views/2)  
- [ ] FPA Development Fund – apply for it\!  
- [ ] openBrain: FPA Bounty attribution proposal / How about attributing on a timely basis bounties (small amounts) to reward most significant contribution achievements (code, translations, documentation, community live, …) ?  
- [ ] openBrain: GH tickets / Shall we really reopen GH tickets closed by PR till the code is actually integrated in stable version ?  
  
      - [ ] Brad:  No.  This happened as a result of need to track backports but it is confusing.  We need a better process. I’ve drafted a process in the handbook for [minor releases](https://freecad.github.io/DevelopersHandbook/technical/MinorRelease.html).  It’s incomplete and needs more discussion.    
- [ ] openBrain: GH tickets / Is there a plan to have a “tickethon” (probably after 0.21 release) to clean up the ticket list (now 850+ tickets isn’t reasonable) ?  
  
      - [ ] Brad:  Yes\!  This is part of what we had in mind for the [August meetup](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?p=679248\&hilit=hackathon\#p679248).    
            We were thinking that establishing a handful (less than seven) projects that are targets for v1.0 and then fitting as many outstanding issues into them as possible.   
      - [ ] 850+ absolute number isn’t a problem.  But I agree so many unorganized and poorly defined issues mean most are getting ignored and it’s just noise.    
            - [ ] oB: yes was mainly my point. Most probably only 10\~20% of the tickets are really actionable.  
- [ ] openBrain: GH tickets / Can we clarify when to report “Issue” and when to report “Problem” ?  
  
      - [ ] adrianinsaval: Current approved process talks of characterising everything in terms of a problem to be resolved, we should remove the other issue templates  
- [ ] openBrain: Gitlab CI / Shall we continue using it ? This CI flow regularly is out of service. Again this days it neither successes nor fails leaving PR checkmark in an unterminated state. Also it generates lot of “spam” in mailboxes. Finally one made it a necessary check to pass for merging a PR, so as soon as it doesn’t work PR needs to bypass protection to be merged.  
- [ ] openBrain: GH discussions / How about using to (roughly) replace “developer corner” ? It would free forum from developer-only discussions and ease linking with actual code in threads.  
  
      - [ ] Adrian: Seems to me that we would be splitting discussions in too many places, but may be useful if we can limit creation of topics to maintainers and an approved list of contributors only.  
- [ ] openBrain: 0.21 release / When is planned feature freeze ? How long is planned the bugfixing period to last ? Where can we found the list of bugs to be fixed for release ?  
  
      - [ ] Brad:  The project board listed above should be THE place.  It’s a mess right now.  We need to sort outstanding issues and esp. PRs that don’t have maintainers.  
      - [ ] Brad:  IMHO, until sunday (today?) we’ll accept PRs and Draft PRs for consideration.  Sunday we make the call about what’s in and what’s out. That means we’re effectively frozen and only the designated PRs and new bugfix PRs will be merged.    
- [ ] 
