## 7 July 2024

1. Tidy up the addons in the addon manager – most of them are more or less dead and do not work on recent FreeCAD versions \-\> @chennes?  
   And how we as developers generally look at addons – more like “hacks” (like Gnome does) and don’t really care about them (regarding keeping compatibility, etc.) or embrace them more?  
   1. Addons are an incredible ground for learning and forming new FreeCAD developers. It should be encouraged and nothing dropped  
   2. System for users to know what is tested with what version  
   3. Have devs update the xml files more  
   4. Communicate more with addon devs over these things  
   5. Reward addons that have their xml up to date?  
   6. Post issue on each addon to update xml and test against 1.0?  
2. OCCT Users Group.  Should we have one? (sliptonic)  
   1. Background:  OCCT is a critical piece of infrastructure for FreeCAD.  Without it, there would be no FreeCAD at all.  We have a vested interest in seeing OCCT development continue and improve.  
   2. There’s a lot of activity in the geometry kernel space.    
      1. A new kernel (truck) is being developed but is far from feature parity with OCCT  
      2. The OGG fork is an open question  
   3. It would be great to see the greater community of OCCT projects organize to influence and encourage development in a way that benefits all of us.  
   4. Creating an OCCT users group is a lot of work but the FPA has money to spend.  Perhaps we could use FPA money to kickstart an OCCT users group.  
   5. How would this be done?  
      1. The first priority would be to find someone to lead the effort.  This could be a compensated position.  This person would:  
         1. Draft a proposed operating charter  
         2. Find other projects and participants.  Encourage membership  
         3. Organize meetings and real-world events  
         4. Build a relationship with OCCT core project  
         5. Communicate status and requirements to FreeCAD community/FPA  
      2. If we can find a willing ~~victim~~ leader, the second priority would be to allocate funds to make it happen.  This is an FPA vote.    
3. Issue Triage for 1.0 release (chennes)  
   1. We should schedule a new one next week  
4. DISCUSS After 1.0: Get rid of Qt5 support? (kadet)  
   Background: Targeting multiple major releases of Qt is painful and problematic, we should focus on providing a good experience for Qt6.  
   1. LTS distributions support should be our decision factor  
5. Release 1.0 against Qt6? (chennes)  
   1. Basically yes but each platform maintainer should decide   
   2. Caution for sure. 1.01 on qt6?   
   3. There are no CI runs of Python 3.12/Qt6 at this time, as well  
6. Bug \#11305 resolution: alias in carboncopy (chennes)  
7. Merge problems reported by Werner:  
   1. Many problems caused by some PRs, ex. Materials, or Project Units System/agsilva  
   2. Anything bigger than a bugfix should be actually tested by someone before merging \<- enforce review and approval?  
   3. Everything should follow rules of clean code and avoid to add more and more technical debts to the code base  
   4. Fixing Lint warnings is a very good thing  
   5. Some rules like readability-identifier-length, readability-convert-member-functions-to-static, bugprone-easily-swappable-parameters, non-const-global-variables or static-cast-downcast should be removed from .clang-tidy  
   6. Read Robert C. Martin:[https://gist.github.com/wojteklu/73c691 ... 0988cf8d29](https://gist.github.com/wojteklu/73c6914cc446146b8b533c0988cf8d29) \- on YT one can also find a series of good videos starting with [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7EmboKQ ... Lu\&index=1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7EmboKQH8lM\&list=PLdpsE-GEhYVn\_81kDPo1mwE73UgYCeMLu\&index=1)  
   7. furgo (not present): the review practices is one aspect, but is the available human hour time not equally relevant? Not having enough time or people to timely review and merge PRs is surely putting pressure on current reviewers. In the same vein as the current FPA-funded position for issue triaging (which in my opinion is working very well), would a similar position as a merge request reviewer not be a viable option? See GitLab's Merge Request Coach role as a model. That person could also take responsibility for defining and enforcing PR review practices (disclaimer: while making the proposal, I have no specific interest \-or skillset- on such a potential role).  
   8. We should appoint more reviewers  
   9. We should have a guideline for refactoring and how to treat Lint warnings ( maybe something for chennes and werner to put their knowledge in)  
   10. Mentors for new coders?  
   11. Call werner more  
   12. Call groups reviews  
8. Need a ‘get Global Placement” function that works everywhere.  
   1. Current getGlobalPlacement is deprecated:  
      1. [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=45406](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=45406)  
      2. [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=84327](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=84327)  
   2. There are existing issues on the tracker:  
      1. [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/11977](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/11977)  
      2. [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/15090](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/15090)  
   3. The impact of not having this :   
      1. [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/14923](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/14923)  
   4. This is specifically becoming an issue with assemblies.  
      1. Assemblies often include multiple copies of the same object.  
      2. 
   5. Need to find the right people with expertise in this area  
      1. Realthunder?  
      2. Werner?  
   6. Realthunder being the original author of GetGlobalPlacement, it's probably a good idea to see with him…  
9. DISCUSS After 1.0: Vendoring/forking  in-tree to have more control (kadet)  
   Background: Replacing Coin3D would be super hard as it is responsible for basically everything going on in the 3D View. It is not a terrible library from the design perspective but it is very old and not really developed actively. Moving the code in-tree would allow us to fix bugs easily and profit from it without waiting for major Linux distributions to provide new releases.   
   1. We all think it's sensible to try to stay with Coin for a longer time and try to fix / extend it  
   2. Kadet will try to look at what it will cost to move Coin in-tree and provide PoC  
   3. Yorik will talk with Looo and try to find who at Coin could talk with us, regarding having better release scheme, etc  
10. Handling of OCC issues (davesrocketshop)  
    1. [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/14588](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/14588)  
    2. We need an OCCT coordinator  
    3. We need to treat OCCT bugs correctly, try to open corresponding bugs at OCCT, and not turn users away  
    4. FPA will try to create a communication channel with OCCT  
    5. As an ultimate last-resort solution, we could always fork
