## 17 August 2024

1. DISCUSS: [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/15762) (chennes)  
   
   1. Related: moderation and moderators  
   2. Related: community ombudsperson  
   3. Related: developer forum  
   4. CoC is already good, but moderators sometimes don’t get to see the issue until it has escalated  
   5. Criticism without any attempt to contribute via the contribution process is not constructive, but to moderators doesn’t look like a CoC violation, even though it actively harms development team  
   6. We lack some moderation resources  
   7. Are moderators “police”?  
      1. Existing moderators were not always recruited with that sort of active moderation in mind, and may be unwilling to do so (preferring an anti-spam and forums organization role)  
   8. Do we need more moderators?  
      1. Always (but who wants the job?)  
   9. Action: moderators will weigh in on the forums discussion about the CoC  
   10. Culture change on the forums is difficult or impossible with the existing forum’s history.  

2. DISCUSS: 1.0 release status and blockers (chennes)  
   
   1. Splash screen contest? (NewJoker)  
      1. [3D Rendering Logo](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?p=776325\#p776325)  
      2. All present developers support using the logo rendering, obviating the need for a contest.  
   2. More promotional material?  

3. DISCUSS: Proposed further linter settings changes (chennes)  
   
   1. Remove all “whitespace-\*” linter warnings (these should be done via clang-format)  
   2. Remove “don’t use short” (but consider following its advice in a single large update of the codebase)  
   3. Remove “readability-braces-around-statements” (should be done via clang format, lots of the codebase still needs this set up)  
   4. Remove “readability/braces” (disagrees with clang-format)  
   5. No objections, devs are asked to take a look at the proposed PR and note any objections to the changes.  

4. DISCUSS: Proposed cMake auto-formatter (chennes)  
   
   1. No objections, chennes will ping Werner about it  

5. FYI: For some parts of the world these meetings are at like 2 a.m. Please don’t *presume* non-attendance represents any particular attitude. (worser)  
   
   1. Can one of the meetings have a different time?  
   2. Time suggestion? Any suggestion will eliminate either US or European participation (current time eliminates Australia, etc.)  

6. DISCUSS: Further to 5, and in the spirit of openness, please publish summary minutes (worser)
   
   In future meetings a person will be selected to take meeting notes.

7. DISCUSS: Grant(s) to implement features from Link Branch: [https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=89764\#p776066](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=89764\#p776066) (NewJoker)  
   
   1. [Alexandre Prokoudine](mailto:alexandreprokoudine@gmail.com) previously prepared a report for this on behalf of Ondsel. [Useful changes from LS3 by RealThunder](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dDqC5jCO9\_eYgMTJEbwpS14rdp\_nRI9OkhjgEiLYqtM/edit?usp=sharing)   
   2. FPA is open to any idea and ready to fund any proposal, so let them come\!  
   3. That is sometimes more difficult than it seems, so it still needs someone to look at a particular one and plan well and build a proposal  
   4. First step would be to build a GitHub issue for each  

8. DISCUSS: Removing deprecated macros from Addon Manager and wiki \- example: [https://wiki.freecad.org/Macro\_GMSH](https://wiki.freecad.org/Macro\_GMSH) (NewJoker)  
   
   1. At the previous meeting, the "Addon Ecosystem Coordinator" position was proposed.  
      1. Yorik and chennes are working on final language to FPA grant proposals  
   2. We could obsolete them but not actually remove them as they might still be used as example or updated later  
      1. On wiki, remove from Recipes page.  

9. DISCUSS: Commit signing (oursland)  
   
   1. Asking everybody to sign their commits?  
   2. VLC has experienced "unknown" last-minute commits that compromised release builds  
   3. It would not be possible anymore to "rebase and merge" as it would break the signing  
   4. We should start signing our binaries. MacOS is taken care of, Windows is on the way, someone should look into Linux (Appimages and Snaps)  
   5. Yorik will discuss signing commits with Werner, no developers present at the meeting objected to signing theirs.  

10. NewJoker becoming official moderator of the FEM forum section  

11. The meeting finishes here and continues to an issues solving meeting, looking at 1.0 blocking issues  
    
    1. Around 20 release blockers now remain, of which four are considered to also be release candidate blockers.  
    2. Once the four RC blockers are resolved, the 1.0 branch will be created and RC1 released.
