## 7 January 2024

Attendees: bgbsww, Roy, sliptonic, David Carter, James Debono, kadet, Jackson Oursland, howie, NewJoker, CalligaroV, Max, wandererfan, Adrian Insaurallde, chennes, Alexandre  
Secretary: Chris Hennes (chennes)

DISCUSS:

11. Release planning  
    1. Maintenance release  
       1. Status of release 0.21.2?  
          1. Adrian will make the release ASAP  
    2. Major Release  
       1. Release: 0.22?   
       2. 0.99?   
       3. Wait for 1.0?  
       4. Problem with waiting is that people start to move to development branch  
       5. Lots of baggage tied to “1.0” – we said we are going to release 1.0 next  
       6. Concern with supporting “official releases” that we don’t want to break  
       7. Can we get to 1.0 in three months? E.g. “first quarter”.  
       8. Work hard in January, discuss release at FOSDEM  
       9. Last major release was in August, so we have until then to hit a one-year mark if we have to  
    3. Goals for major release.  Where are we?  
       1. Toponaming  
          1. Toponaming abstraction issues.  
             1. Currently merging TopoShape class  
             2. 94 new methods, 5600 lines of code  
             3. Needs lots of tests  
             4. OCCT 7.8 is supposed to be much faster  
             5. There will be some slowdown, we are doing more during a recompute  
             6. Chennes will ask on the forums for benchmark model donations  
       2. Materials  
          1. David helping with renders. Jose might connect over MBD.  
          2. Won’t be ready for FOSDEM  
          3. Things can’t crash\! Conflict with Render WB, etc.  
          4. Would like appearance properties using the new subsystem as the goal for 1.0 release  
       3. Assembly  
          1. Work is continuing on Card 9, that keeps growing  
          2. Ondsel’s build has an “assembly playground”  
          3. Where is the line between assembly and inverse kinematics (animation of complex assemblies) solver?  
          4. Initial take is about snapping parts together, complex animation later step.  
          5. Merge expected in time for 1.0, but may not be before FOSDEM  
       4. UI/UX improvements  
          1. Need more rigorous process for improvements  
          2. Neverending project  
          3. Thanks to Design Working Group for their work in contributing to PR reviews  
    4. Let’s review the [Fosdem complaint list](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=75768\#p658200)  
    5. Merge Meetings  
       1. Monday mornings: goal is never more than a week of non-contact from Maintainer team  
       2. Has been relatively successful: not too many reverts  
       3. Some concern from Werner about merging bugs and not fixing them  
       4. Team is trying to be careful about this, at least cognizant of the issue  
12. [Ondsel User survey](https://ondsel.com/blog/survey-engineers-architecture/)  
    1. Survey is focused on figuring out how people are actually using FreeCAD, and finding out if there are isolated groupings of users  
    2. The survey is still running but has gotten a lot of responses already. (\~600 as of this meeting)  
    3. We need to let it finish and then do some analysis.    
    4. Planning to present something at FreeCAD day.  
    5. I can give some early insights now if interested.  
       1. Mostly hobbyist users  
       2. Ondsel would like to see more commercial users  
       3. Lattice2 gets used a lot, Sheetmetal, Fasteners, FCInfo, KiCAD step-up has tool FC is missing  
    6. Can we do any kind of telemetry or other metrics about how FC is used?  
       1. Lots of pushback in other projects about any kind of telemetry  
       2. Ondsel might do it, disclosed clearly in TOS, etc.  
    7. We want to figure out what should be in core, versus Addon  
13. Misc & kudos  
    1. OpenGeometry folks.  
       1. Forked OpenCASCADE, no known code changes yet (last visible development Nov 2022 and from upstream project)  
    2. Kudos to Sketcher devs\!  
       1. Who can fill in for Abdullah?  
          1. PaddleStroke, Ajinkya (jnxd), FlachyJoe have been heavily involved  
          2. Product “owners” \- can we separate subject-matter experts versus code experts?  
          3. Someone to collect issues, manage project: maintainers manage the source code, not the vision  
             1. NewJoker can comment on FEM, but not code

Comments for next time

1. Collect ideas for what goes into the post-1.0 release

Leftover agenda items

1. Dogfooding.   
   
   1. Another discussion on renaming Part Design and other workbenches.  

2. Path/CAM  
   
   1. Brad preparing document of requirements for making Path more competitive. There is a “big gulf” between open source and proprietary offerings.   
   2. “Round trip through Inkscape” for laser cutting.  

3. We would need some "shape cleaning" algorithms to clean projected results (remove doubles, recognize linear b-splines, etc)  
   
   1. There is “shape cleaning” code in TechDraw.  Removing duplicate lines is called “edge scrubbing” in TD.   There is also code to interpret splines as circles and lines.  

4. Do we need to update the contribution policy in some way after abdullah’s departure?

ACTIONS:

- [ ] 
