## 3 March 2024

Attendees: wandererfan, yvh, DaveC, KurtK, alexs, sliptonic, roy, jacksonO, shai, kinghat, adrian  
Secretary:  wandererfan

DISCUSS (1-4 are leftover items from previous agenda):

1. Dogfooding.   
   1. Another discussion on renaming Part Design and other workbenches.  
      1. Who’s item is this?  
      2. Sliptonic \- would be good to get more opportunities for developers to sit and watch users work through tasks to see when the rough spots are.  
      3. Kk workbench names are not sufficient to organize the tools/tasks  
      4. Yvh users ask where to look for the tool to do xxxx.  
      5. Slip \- overlapping workbenches (silk, surface, curves, etc)  
      6. DC \- how would i know to look in Draft in order to do xxx.  I don’t use draft.  
      7. Discussion of custom toolbars with the appropriate tools to perform specific user facing tasks.  Also tools from core to support addon wb makers.  
      8. Slip \- fc doesn’t always feel cohesive. How to   
      9. Kkurt \- hammer & nail analogy. Using same tool for everything.  
      10. Yvh \- workbenches as templates?  
      11. Roy \- first run wizard to create job specific “workbench”.    
      12. Yvh \- start wb as “how to use this app”  
      13. Roy \- expectation that FC is easy to learn by “playing” may not be realistic  
      14. Yvh \- intersection of professional and amateur/hobbyist is opportunity for learning  
      15. Slip \- autodesk breadth of product line targeted at various demographics \- architects, amateur 3d printers, etc.   FC includes things that a user in field x will never use.  
      16. DC \- offer slices of functionality by use case   
      17. Yvh \- blender visit \- “focus on making freecad powerful”.   
      18. Slip \- distributions of freecad targeted to niches. May not be a problem that the core project needs to solve.  
      19. DC \- discussion of rocket based targeted distribution  
      20. Alex \- mechanical design w/o architecture for example.  Newish user, surprised that there was no assm wb.  \+1 for list of useful wb/tools.  
      21. Alex \- plugins may be merged into core. How does that work? Does it work?  
      22. Slip \- who uses which addon? Sheet metal: upgrade & distribute in Ondsel version, then merge into core.  “Unfold” to c++ to core.  
      23. DC \- barriers to entry as core developer.   (see developer handbook re adding feature to c++ module)  
2. Path/CAM (sliptonic)  
   1. sliptonic preparing document of requirements for making Path more competitive. There is a “big gulf” between open source and proprietary offerings.   
      1. laser(svg) workflow  
      2. We would need some "shape cleaning" algorithms to clean projected results (remove doubles, recognize linear b-splines, etc)  
         1. There is “shape cleaning” code in TechDraw.  Removing duplicate lines is called “edge scrubbing” in TD.   There is also code to interpret splines as circles and lines.  
   2. Path Rename project  
      1. Users did not know there was a CAM WB due to name.  
      2. Makerspace laser cutter work flow.  Laser machine controllers use svg natively, but FC does not yet produce sufficient information in the svg.  
3. Do we need to update the contribution policy in some way after abdullah’s departure?  
   1. Who’s issue was this?   
   2. KK \- noticed “vibe shift” in community after brief absence.  
   3. Yvh \- not sure that contribution policy was big factor here.     
   4. Yvh \- need for increased moderator resources?  
   5. Sliptonic:  I advise against discussing this topic in this meeting.  It’s a valid discussion to have but the contribution policy is in the source so modification should be handled like any other change to source.  If there’s a problem with the policy, we should detail the problem in an issue.  Then we discuss the problem and propose a solution, create a PR to implement the solution, discuss the fix in the PR and merge.    
      My concern is that a discussion here either won’t result in substantive change or won’t involve enough people represented.  
   6. Slip \- there is a better venue for the contribution & moderator discussions coming up.  
4. Materials Update (Dave Carter)  
   1. Shapematerial moving from viewprovider to feature & App::Material is becoming Material::Material.  
   2. New ShapeAppearance coming (colours/textures/etc).  New widget for material selection.  
   3. PR in next week or 2\.  Getting pushed to move new material into FEM, Render, etc  
5. Arch/BIM/NativeIFC merge (Yorik)  
   1. Plan is to merge BIM & NativeIFC into single complete Arch wb  
   2. Grant from NLNet to work on NativeIFC   
6. Removing the Web WB and rebuild Start WB (sliptonic)  
   1. Slip \- issue came up at FOSDEM.  Web workbench causes us problems due to security issues with web access in the app.  
   2. adrian/yvh \- help wb uses qtwebengine? Maybe use markdown instead of wiki/html.   We still depend on the wiki and its translations.  Need to connect CrowdIn to our documentation.   
   3. Material wb uses web lookup \- may or may not be webengine. Looks like material is just opening external web browser?  
   4. Auto conversion of wiki to md does not make pretty html.  
   5. FPA grant for help migration?   Needs precise requirements.   
   6. Yvh \- not a lot of new wiki material being generated (as opposed to corrections/updates).  
   7. Roy \- shortage of  wiki authors.  3 people do most of the work.  
   8. FPA grant for documentation work?  
   9. More structure in the documentation update process?  
7. Improving 3D visualization.  AO, shaders, shadows  (sliptonic)  
   1. Realthunder implemented shadows in his fork.  Not enabled by default  
   2. Modifications to Coin to support it.  
   3. We (ondsel) would like to see visualization improved.  Looking for talent to work on this.  
      1. Need technical people to interview/discuss low level issues  
         1. Looo  
         2. Dave Carter  
         3. Kkremitzki  
         4. Yorik  
         5. 
      2. Need to discuss whether this should be an FPA grant or Ondsel funded.  
      3. Concerns  
         1. Moving away from Coin is huge  
         2. Coin is quite capable  
         3. Moving to vulcan is desirable but a lot of work  
         4. 
   4. Dc \- big overlap with Materials here.    
   5. May or may not need to update coin itself.  Might be possible to use extensions as is already done in FC.   Is FC the last user of coin?   
   6. Shai \- can we merge RT’s version in main?    
      1. Yvh \- harder than it looks.   
8. Let’s talk about Product Owners (sliptonic)  
   1. wf could use one of these on TechDraw.    
   2. Ondsel blog post re historical development FC process based on single coder/subject matter expert.   How to encourage more domain level expertise to get involved in the project planning process?  
9. Release schedule (chennes)  
10. JO \- how do we keep these discussions going?  Github issues/discussions? Forum topics?  How do we keep track of progress? What goes to FPA/FC/Ondsel…  Probably more than 1 answer.
