## 5 May 2024

1. DISCUSS: Roadmap and ‘next release’ review. (Roy, unable to attend) In relation to that set date for 0.21.3 release, maybe end of April?  
   1. Feature freeze vs release date  
   2. Still several weeks before flipping “the big switch” on TN mitigation  
   3. 21.3 release could be done relatively quickly  
   4. Should we do 0.22?   Probably time to pull the trigger.  
   5. Proposal:  Feature freeze \~ 1 May 2024  
   6. Target date: May 15  
   7. TODO: (Everyone) Keep an eye open for meeting time for freeze decision   
2. FYI: [How to compile with TNP mitigation enabled](https://forum.freecad.org/viewtopic.php?t=86506\&hilit=toponaming) (chennes)  
   1. \-DCMAKE\_CXX\_FLAGS=-DFC\_USE\_TNP\_FIX  
3. FYI: North American FreeCAD Hackathon 2024 in Springfield, IL (chennes)  
4. (Ajinkya) DISCUSS: Any interest in [FOSSHack](https://fossunited.org/fosshack/2024) (India-wide hackathon in late July)? We need a set of low-hanging-fruits to pose, and possibly sufficient people online on discord.  
   1. Can we go ahead with this with the feature freeze active? (could emphasize on addons)  
   2. 2-day event/competition July 27-28, 2024  
   3. DONE: (Ajinkya) Ask organizers what kind of tasks are expected—are unit tests OK? How will they be measured for competition?  
5. (sliptonic/JohnD) DISCUSS: Support for USD document references  
   1. [Proposal document from Ondsel (John D)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cM2c4mm\_Un\_La43Lylc5tbZdqiRSkoL3ImpJ1F4svvg/edit)  
   2. [Proposal to Support Document References using USD (Universal Scene Description)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cM2c4mm\_Un\_La43Lylc5tbZdqiRSkoL3ImpJ1F4svvg/edit?usp=drivesdk)  
6. (sliptonic/Pieter) DISCUSS:  Variants and VarSets  
7. Addon Improvement and normalization  
   1. What can we do to improve the addon experience for users?  
   2. Which Addons should receive broader development attention?  
   3. How do we decide what to integrate and what not to?  
   4. Who decides what gets featured?  
   5. DISCUSS: Post-1.0 roadmap  
      1. Release frequency?  
      2. Backport strategy to include features?  
8. DISCUSS: Including addons with default distribution (e.g. themes) (chennes)  
   1. Support for questions on first start, and suggestions  
   2. Addons may have different licences  
   3. TODO: (chennes) Addon themes that override built-in themes  
9. DISCUSS: [Performance metrics tracking in CI](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/discussions/13722) (oursland)  
   1. Broad support for the basic idea  
   2. How often to run?  
   3. Overall, do we need to improve CI/tests in general?  
   4. TODO: oursland to create CI system and basic tests for demo  
10. DISCUSS: allowing operations to create multiple solids for easier modelling [https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/9747](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/9747)  
    1. Broad support for more research  
    2. Not targeted for 1.0  
11. DISCUSS: website and blog migration for version 1.0 release, feedback on this [design issue](https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-Homepage/issues/165) most welcome and go/no-go needed (marcuspollio, cannot attend due to time zone)  
    1. Developers think this is a good idea \- carry on\!
