# FreeCAD Developer Meeting

**Saturday, 14 September 2024**

1. **Volunteer to take minutes**
    WandererFan
    Attending: Yorik, sliptonic. JacksonO, Adrian, Max, pierreporte, reqrefusion, wf, bgbsww, newJoker


2. **1.0 release status**

    - many new bugs being reported.
    - 9 blockers remaining, but we have not been rigourous in marking new bug reports as blockers
    - 113 open bugs tagged for 1.0 milestone
    - will never get the Q to zero.  maybe we need a review meeting to decide which items in the Q 
      absolutely need to be in 1.0.
    - newest bug reports are about 2 weks old (pre RC)?
    - none of the Draft/Bim issues are critical
    - we have to make a final decision on what to include.
    - use the M3 meeting on 2024-09-23 as final bug review??
    - use the M3 meeting on 2024-09-16 to categorize issues
    - blog post for 1.0 is ready
    - translations are in good shape for release
    - OfficinaRobotica working on a short video for 1.0
    
    - product signing
        - win signing is in hand
        - do AppImages need to be signed? (Adrian is currently signing the AppImage)
    
    
3. **(sliptonic) Need for a common assets location**

    There is a category of improvements to FreeCAD that should be deliverable via addons. These include but aren't limited to:
    - CAM post-processors and Tools
    - Better materials
    - TechDraw templates
    
    In the future, we could anticipate other kinds of assets like:
    - CAM vises, tool holders, clamps to make setup easier.
    - Stock configs for raytracing 
    - Robot definitions and CNC machines for simulation

    Currently, addons can only install into the `MOD` directory or the user macro directory. FreeCAD should have a dedicated assets location where addons can install resources that other workbenches and addons can use. For example:
    - TechDraw should look in `assets/Techdraw` for templates
    - CAM should look in `assets/CAM`, etc.
  
    - **chennes**: I cannot attend this meeting, so am leaving a few notes here
        - To prevent name collisions, etc. the new Addon type should still install into dedicated per-addon folders, e.g. `assets/CAM/BradsGreatToolCollection/`
        - Addons are currently allowed to provide multiple WBs, Preference Packs, etc. in subfolders -- how would this work with Assets?
        - What metadata should assets provide in addition to the [current metadata standard](https://wiki.freecad.org/Package_Metadata) (if any changes are needed)?
    
    - goal is to allow things to be added to well known locations without needing to rebuild the application to pick up changes
    - perhaps an updated list of locations to search
    - is the data directory a potential location?
        - are there user and system data dirs?
    - assets (peer of Mod directory)
        - myAddonModule
            - templates
        - CAM
            - tool holders
                - Able's tool holder
                - Baker's tool holder
                - Charlie's tool holder
                - ...
    - name collisions may happen? need mechanism to catch/prevent this.
        - multiple versions of same asset will have same name?
    - addon manager allows custom repos so we could have same name in multiple repos
    - need to create an issue re asset handling - sliptonic

    
4. **(reqrefusion) Improving the current documentation provider**

    The mediawiki infrastructure that provides the current documentation is the most powerful software in its field, no matter how much it is wanted to be changed, and changing it does not make sense. However, it is not fully used in its current state. Even most of the basic features are not used. It would be the right move to act in this direction and make various improvements.
    
    - before moving to another platform, we should make sure we are using the full capabilities of media wiki
    - mediawiki is a "dinosaur", hard to maintain, only a manual process for backing up the wiki, search facility is limited, translation plug-in is an orphan?
    - no ability to have versioned wiki - wiki v1.0, wiki v0.19, ...
    - would like the wiki content to be separated from the platform to allow use of the content for ebooks, etc
    - GSOC project used docusaurus, but it didn't solve all the problems. 
    - wiki permission system is labour intensive.
    - there is an issue re this?  Upgrade the documentation system #8558 ??
    - Yorik has a script to convert wiki to markdown.  works, but needs upgrades.
    - there is a "mediawiki markup language"
    - wiki can be stored in files instead of a database??
        - this would allow use of git to track changes. reqrefusion to confirm.
    - markdown is not as feature-rich as wiki
    - examine other foss projects with good documentation?\
        - blender is moving from wiki to markdown
        - newer projects seem to use markdown, older projects stick to wiki?
    
    
5. **(pierreporte) CWG / CAD advisory group**

    - garbled audio
    - Mechanical Advisory Group: https://github.com/orgs/FreeCAD/projects/28
    - similar purpose to DWG, but for Mechanical/CAD issues
        - help resolve questions about standards compliance
        - should we do the same as other CAE apps or do it differently?
        - why do other apps do things the way they do?
        - identify missing features that are required for professional use of FreeCAD
    - there is a discord group for MAG?
    - github group: CAD Advisory Group https://github.com/orgs/FreeCAD/teams/cad-advisory-group
    - is there an opportunity to award grants for MAG designed requirements?
        - FPA big 4(5?) initiative update planned for post 1.0
        - money is available to support groups of initiatives within the big 4 groups.
    - the should be a similar group for Architecture, other "trades"
    

6. **(chennes) REMINDER: check your Draft 1.0-milestone PRs**

If you have PRs marked as Draft but also marked for the 1.0 milestone, please either wrap them up so they can be reviewed, or ask that they be shifted to Post-1.0.

    - no particular discussion

7. Meeting scheduling
    - confusion re calendar meeting date
    - dev meetings will now be:
        - 1st sunday of month
        - 3rd saturday of month
    
    
Chat transcript:
Max
Max says:There is an issue for the TD templates: 
https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/15264
 
11:49
Yorik
Yorik says:
https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/issues/12547
 
Yorik says:
https://github.com/gauriimaheshwarii/gsoc-2023
 
Yorik says:
https://freecad-documentation.netlify.app/
 
Yorik says:
https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD-documentation
 
Yorik says:
https://github.com/orgs/FreeCAD/projects/28
 
12:31
Jackson Oursland
Jackson Oursland says:On Blender's documentation:

* It's written in ReStructuredText
* It supports multiple versions
* Their contribution documentation: 
https://docs.blender.org/manual/en/latest/contribute/index.html

* The git repo on their private Gitea instance: 
https://projects.blender.org/blender/blender-manual.git
 
12:33
Max
Max says:Ping group on GH: @FreeCAD/cad-advisory-group 
Max says:
https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/15565


https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/pull/16322
 
12:50

